This repository contains the figures generated for the manuscript publication of RADSuite.

## Large data files
To clone this repository to your device, you'll need access to Github's Large File Storage. If you don't already have this downloaded, first download it at https://git-lfs.com/

Next, run this command in a terminal such as git bash:
```
git lfs install
```
You should now be ready to clone the repository.

## Set working directory
After all dependencies have been installed, set the working directory to the figures directory:
```r
    setwd("your/path/to/figures")
```

## Dependencies
Figure 2 has three package dependencies: Biostrings, tidyverse, and here. If any 
of these dependencies are not installed, run the corresponding line in the R 
command line to install them:

### Biostrings
```r
    install.packages("BiocManager")
    BiocManager::install("Biostrings")
```
### tidyverse
```r
    install.packages("tidyverse")
```
### here 
```r
    install.packages("here")
```
### data.table
```r
    install.packages("data.table")
```
### ggtext
```r
    install.packages("ggtext")
```

# Instructions on generating figure 1
Because figure 1 contains no numerical data, it was created manually using the draw.io
free software. A copy of the figure has been included here for completeness.

# Instructions on generating figure 2

Figure 2 can be generated by first running the rscript "access_data.r" and then "create_figure_2.r". Both of the files needed for creating figure 2 can be found in the figure-2 directory.

To run a file in RStudio, open the file by going to File -> Open File and selecting the correct file, then use the "Source" button in the top right corner of the file window in RStudio.

# Instructions on generating figure 3
First, clone this repository to your device.

After all dependencies have been installed, figure 3 can be generated by running these rscripts in this order: "load_data.r", "figure_3_presentable.R".

## FAQ
I'm encountering an error that says that a data file for the figures doesn't exist.

Things to try:

Check your working directory is the figures/ directory you cloned from Github.
```r
getwd()
```

Restart RStudio
Sometimes, installing the dependencies requires a restart to allow the here package to correctly locate the files.
